Before coming to Gilead,
all of you students enjoyed
many privileges of service.
Maybe you served as a regular pioneer,
as a special pioneer,
as a construction worker,
or as a field missionary.
You may have served
in the circuit work or at Bethel,
and now you’ve enjoyed
the additional privilege
of having five months of intensive training
here at Gilead School.
And no doubt all of you have appreciated
the fine direction you’ve received.
Proverbs 28:20 says
that “a faithful man
will receive many blessings.”
And no doubt all of you students
feel richly blessed here
on your graduation day.
We’re very happy for you,
and we’re certainly confident
that there are many more blessings
and privileges that await you
as you go on to your assignments.
But before you go,
I’d just like to ask one question:
Do privileges make you privileged?
We ask this question
because the answer will help you
to have a proper view of your Gilead training
and also whatever privileges you may receive
as you go on to your assignment.
And the answer will also help all of us
to show modesty and humility
in whatever assignment
Jehovah sees fit to give us.
So do privileges make us privileged?
The simple answer is no.
But in some languages,
the word “privilege”
can carry the wrong idea.
For example, in English,
“privilege” carries the meaning
of entitlement.
We may speak of a privileged class
—people who because of their birth
or because of their wealth
have a higher place in society than others.
A privilege that we receive
in Jehovah’s organization
could even be misunderstood
as something given to us
because we’re special
or even better than others.
The possibility of misunderstanding
what is meant by the word “privilege”
is even more pronounced in other languages.
For example, in Japanese, for many years,
we used the word tokken
to translate the word “privilege.”
And if you look in the dictionary,
that’s the word that you should use.
But many of us in the Japanese field
felt a little bit uncomfortable using tokken
because that word is formed
by combining two Chinese characters:
toku  means “special,”
and ken  means “right.”
So literally that would mean
you have a special right
to attend Gilead School.
I have a special right to serve at Bethel.
But we know that is not the case.
So you can imagine our delight
when we received study article 35
in the September 2019 issue
of The Watchtower.
It was entitled
“Jehovah Values His Humble Servants.”
And in a section that was discussing the need
for humility when others
receive privileges of service,
the Japanese translators
applied the principle
of meaning-based translation.
Instead of using the dictionary meaning
and calling the privileges special rights,
they call them hoshinokikai
—opportunities to serve.
We were elated.
Privileges are not given as a special right.
Rather, they give us additional opportunities
to be of service
to Jehovah and to our brothers.
So does that mean
we should stop using the word “privilege”?
Not necessarily.
But we do need
to have a correct understanding
of its meaning in the spiritual setting.
One way to gain a proper understanding
is to examine how the word “privilege”
is used in the New World Translation.
For example, at Luke 1:43,
Elizabeth described a visit from Mary,
the mother of her Lord, as a “privilege.”
Now, did Elizabeth mean
that she had a special right
to have Mary enter her home?
No.
Rather, she viewed the visit
as a blessing from Jehovah.
Acts 7:46 speaks of David
asking God “for the privilege of providing
a dwelling place for the God of Jacob.”
And at 2 Corinthians 8:4,
Paul spoke of Christians
who ‘kept earnestly begging us
‘for the privilege of having a share
in the relief ministry for the holy ones.’
David and Paul were not talking
about any special right.
Rather, they were describing an opportunity
to work in service to Jehovah
and to their brothers.
So let’s not be misled by the meaning
that the world generally attaches
to the word “privilege.”
The direction found
at Luke 17:10 will help us.
Please open to that verse.
And whenever we receive a privilege,
or an opportunity to serve,
let’s remember these words
and this counsel of Jesus
—Luke 17:10.
He said: “Likewise, when you
have done all the things assigned to you,
“say: ‘We are good-for-nothing slaves.
What we have done
is what we ought to have done.’”
Now, of course, this doesn’t mean
that we should view ourselves
as useless, or worthless.
A note in the Study Bible  explains
that ‘according to the context,
‘“good-for-nothing” conveys the idea
‘that the slave would view himself modestly,
not as deserving
of some special credit or praise.’
And that is how we view ourselves
when we receive privileges of service.
Now let’s consider
another aspect of privileges.
The English dictionary defines privilege
as “a right attached specifically
to a position or office.”
However, not all privileges of service
involve a specific assignment or a position.
The number of positions
in Jehovah’s organization is limited.
The opportunities to serve are endless.
Please open to Matthew chapter 20;
we’ll read verses 25 to 27
because here Jesus clarified the importance
of serving over position.
Now, Brother Lett
already explained the setting:
It’s when the mother of James and John
asked Jesus to give her sons
special positions in the Kingdom.
In verses 25 to 27,
this is what Jesus said:
“But Jesus called them to him and said:
“‘You know that the rulers of the nations
“‘lord it over them and the great men
wield authority over them.
“‘This must not be the way among you;
“‘but whoever wants to become great
among you must be your minister,
and whoever wants to be first among you
must be your slave.’”
Yes, instead of seeking
a high position of authority,
Christians reach out to minister
to the needs of others
—to serve as humble slaves.
Interestingly, 1 Timothy 3:1
used to describe a man
who “is reaching out
for an office of overseer.”
But the revised edition
of The New World Translation  reads:
“If a man is reaching out to be an overseer,
he is desirous of a fine work.”
This puts the emphasis
not on the office or position
but on the qualifications
that are needed by one
who exerts himself
to be of service to others.
There are many opportunities of service
that do not involve
a special appointment or position.
Think of Bible examples
of hardworking Christian men and women.
Dorcas “abounded
in good deeds and gifts of mercy”;
Joanna, Susanna, and many other women
ministered to Jesus from their belongings;
and while Paul was in prison,
Tychicus served as his personal messenger;
Mark helped Paul in practical ways,
perhaps delivering food to him.
So as you go on to your assignment,
remember,
privileges do not make you privileged
and whether your privileges come
with an official assignment or not,
humbly carry them out
as opportunities to “slave for Jehovah”
and to serve our brothers more fully.